# Our Goal
When Wildstar closed in November 2018, it took with it the characters that brought its world to life. We never got to see the closure of Drusera's arc, or face the Entity in a final confrontation. There's nothing worse in a story than an ending denied. That being said, we still have access to the files containing not only the models, but their textures and skeletons/rigs, among other props and assets. With this in mind, our main goal with this project is to produce a rigged model of a Wildstar character (in this instance, Drusera) to be used in fan animations. We want this rig to be close as possible to the original rig, while also making modifications for easy animation.
While we are only focusing on one model for this project, our hope is that this will inspire other members of the community to rig other character models, until we have a library of Wildstar characters ready to be animated on programs like Source Filmmaker (SFM) and MikuMikuDance (MMD). 

# The Main Aspects of the Model
With this rig, we want to allow flexibility and easy expression, to allow the animator to bring the character to life. As such, there are 6 aspects that we want to cover:

1. **The Main Body**. This, of course, includes the main skeleton, allowing the movement of arms and legs, the spine, fingers, feet, etc.
2. **The Face**. The most recognised part of the humanoid anatomy. This allows such things as lip-sync and facial expressions, as you may well know. Very important in a character.
3. **The Clothing**. Drusera wears a very long robe, which is subject to wind-drag and such as she floats around, so that must also be rigged.
4. **Geometry modification**. With game development, you will often find that the original modellers had cut corners here and there in order for the model to be rendered efficiently during gameplay. The original model for Drusera, for example, was not meant to be seen with her hood down (hence the notable lack of ears), and her body underneath the robe is virtually non-existent. Now, we're not saying we want to make a NSFW version of the model (that's a job for people who *do* want to make such a thing); with that being said, modifications and additions to the model would allow an extra level of detail to be added to an animation.
5. **Texturing**. Tying into the previous aspect, the UVs and texturing of the model is vitally important to take note of, especially when you're changing the model itself; if you're not careful, you can get glitches appearing all over the model, which we don't want. There are also notable aspects in the texture itself which need to be changed; a possible tradition in game texturing, the shadow of Drusera's head under the robe is painted on, which looks alright until you decide to take off the hood and find that the rest of her head is notably darker than her face. As such, it is possible that the texture itself will have to be repainted (and the UV adjusted accordingly) to ensure both flexibility while animating and that we don't get any more of those glitches.
6. **Visual effects**. This is more or less out of the field of what we're working towards, but at some point we want the model to be able to replicate the eerie mist that surrounds Drusera (visible on Punmonster's Tumblr gif here: https://punmonster.tumblr.com/post/91823431921/a-drusera-for-your-dash)


# Forking our project
As with many fan projects, this is more or less done in our free time, meaning we will not always be working on it. If you want to try to realise our goal, feel free to fork our repository and access our resources on your fork. No doubt there are members of the community out there that are more experienced in some of the fields mentioned in the previous section, and the more people who work towards this project (there are currently about 2-3 of us at the moment), the better.
